HACKING: Add a section about Python bridge and debugging (#18995)
cockpit-project/cockpit: HACKING.md

Refer to the [testing README](test/README.md) for details on running the Cockpit
integration tests locally.

## Python bridge

> Cockpit currently has an experimental replacement for `cockpit-bridge`

Author: Still experimental?

Reviewer: No, it's been live for a while :)

Author: I'll leave that for a follow up.

written in Python.  It resides in `src/cockpit` with most of its rules in
`src/Makefile.am`.  This directory was chosen because it matches the standard
so-called "src layout" convention for Python packages, where each package
(`cockpit`) is a subdirectory of the `src` directory.

### Running the bridge

> An test image with the Python image can be created with `image-prepare`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A test image with the Python image can be created with `image-prepare` for the operating systems which don't enable it yet.
```

>     ./test/image-prepare --python

Author: This is now outdated, where do we not have the bridge yet? Just RHEL 9/8?

Reviewer: RHEL/CentOS 8, debian-stable, ubuntu-2204. The res has it.

Or you can interactively run the bridge locally:

>     python3 -m cockpit.bridge

Author: This obviously needs `PYTHONPATH=src`

Reviewer: Yep. @allisonkarlitskaya and I have two aliases:
```
alias cpf='PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m cockpit.misc.print'
alias cpy='PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m cockpit.bridge'
```

> To enable debug logging you can set `COCKPIT_DEBUG`, in a test virtual
> machine this is easiest done by setting it in the global environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable debug logging, you can set `COCKPIT_DEBUG`. In a test virtual
machine this can be done by setting it in the global environment:
```

>     echo 'COCKPIT_DEBUG=all' > /etc/environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    echo 'COCKPIT_DEBUG=all' >> /etc/environment
```

(to avoid destroying existing settings)

>     echo 'COCKPIT_DEBUG=all' >> /etc/environment

Author: Or uhh `python3 -m cockpit.bridge --debug`

@martinpitt how do you develop with the bridge locally? I usually create a wrapper script and then:
```
./cockpit-ws --local-session=./foo.sh --port 9999
```

Author: Hmmm do something silly and use systemd-ctypes to make a `./build.js -w` variant for Python.

Debug log messages should now appear in your journal.

> ### Testing the Python bridge

Author: Also let's add a section about the `print` tool:

https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/issues/19193

Reviewer: The above does that now, so resolving.

Refer to the [testing README](test/README.md) for details on running the Cockpit
integration tests locally.

## Python bridge

Cockpit currently has an experimental replacement for `cockpit-bridge`
written in Python.  It resides in `src/cockpit` with most of its rules in
`src/Makefile.am`.  This directory was chosen because it matches the standard
so-called "src layout" convention for Python packages, where each package
(`cockpit`) is a subdirectory of the `src` directory.

### Running the bridge

The Python bridge can be used interactively on a local machine:

    PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m cockpit.bridge

To make it easy to test out channels without having to write out messages

> manually `cockpit.misc.print` can be used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
manually, `cockpit.misc.print` can be used:
```

>    PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m cockpit.misc.print open fslist1 path=/etc watch=False | PYTHONPATH=src -m cockpit.bridge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m cockpit.misc.print open fslist1 path=/etc watch=False | PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m cockpit.bridge
```

These shell aliases might be useful when experimenting with the protocol:

    alias cpy='PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m cockpit.bridge'
    alias cpf='PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m cockpit.misc.print'

When working with the Python bridge on test images, note that `RHEL/CentOS 8`,

> `debian-stable` and `ubuntu-2204` use the C bridge. So if you want to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`debian-stable`, and `ubuntu-2204` still use the C bridge. So if you want to
```
